There are many beautiful lessons that we can learn from this account of Lazarus Resurrection.
And one aspect that we're going to discuss today is it reminds us to trust in Jehovah,
to not waver in our faith, even if things do not unfold the way we think they should.
You may remember a few weeks back at our midweek meeting, one of the references was
the August 2017 watchtower.
And I talked about how the peace of God is more wonderful than can be imagined.
And it said this.
It says, so although from a human viewpoint, we may not see away out of our problems,
Jehovah does, and he can do the unexpected.
That means Jehovah can make things turn out even better than we can imagine.
Do you believe this?
Well, those were the words of Jesus to Martha, if we look into account in John chapter 11
of verse 26.
He had just explained that those who exercise faith in him, though they die, will come
to life.
And he said there, at the end of verse 26, it's recorded, do you believe this?
Now Lazarus had been sick to the point of dying.
And Martha and Mary felt that the only solution they could see was for Jesus to come and heal
their brother.
You look at chapter 11 of verse 3.
So his sister sent a message to him saying, Lord, see, the one you have affection for
is sick.
They wanted Jesus to come and heal him.
They had seen him heal people.
They knew if he was just there, everything would work out okay.
In fact, it's of note that both of them said exactly the same thing on two different
occasions to Jesus when they first met him.
Look at in verse 21.
It says, Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
Verse 32, later Mary arrived.
She falls at his feet and says, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
That was the solution they felt to their problem, to this situation.
Well now Lazarus died.
So now what?
Well now Martha, it appears, is trying to gain comfort from the only other solution that
she can see.
Look at verses 23 and 24.
Jesus said to her, your brother will rise.
Martha said to him, I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day.
That's interesting.
Jesus says, Martha, your brother will rise.
And she immediately jumps to the only solution that she can see.
I know he will rise on the last day.
Now she obviously wished for much more.
You look at verse 22, she says, yet even now, I know that whatever you ask God for, God
will give you.
She wanted more.
Jesus said, your brother is going to rise and she says, I know he will rise on the last
day.
Why didn't she say, I know Jesus, I know you can resurrect him right now if you want
to, or please Lord, please resurrect him.
She know about new of the two previous resurrections that Jesus had performed.
Know how she was also well aware of the resurrection that Elijah and Elijah performed.
Perhaps she even knew about the one where the dead man had been, they threw the dead man
and he touched Elijah's bones and came to life.
So why didn't she express confidence that Jesus would resurrect him right then?
We don't know for sure, but there are at least two things that were unique about Lazarus
death in his situation that may have caused her to see only one solution to her pain.
What was that?
Well, one is that all the other previous recorded resurrections by Jesus and the ones by both
Elijah and Elijah were of young people.
In 1st Kings chapter 17, it tells of Elijah resurrecting the widow's son.
The account tells us that Elijah carried the boy to the roof chamber.
He asked God to bring back the child's life.
In 2nd Kings chapter 4, Elijah resurrects the son of the couple who had provided him
with that apartment.
And while verse 18 does say that the child grew up, the account though says that the attendant
carried the boy back to his mother and he sat on her lap until noon, until he died,
and the account refers to him as the boy and the child.
The accounts indicate that Jesus called the son of the widow of name a young man and
Jarrah's daughter a child.
So all four of the previous known resurrections were likely of young people.
All indications were that Lazarus was a grown man.
Now the second thing though, that was even more unique about Lazarus' situation than
the other resurrections, may be indicated by Martha's bit of a panic by which she says
as recorded in chapter 11 and verse 39.
Jesus said, take the stone away.
Martha, the sister of the deceased, said to him, Lord, by now he must smell for it
has been four days.
Lazarus had been dead for four days.
And all other situations, including the one where the man came to life when he touched
Elijah's bones, the person that either just died or were on their way to being buried.
Well here, now Lazarus had died, been prepared for burial, been in the tomb for four days,
had begun to decay.
So thus we can hear the bit of a panic in Martha's voice as she reminds Jesus how long
Lazarus has been dead.
What does Jesus say?
Well you look at verse 40.
Jesus said to her, did I not tell you that if you would believe, you would see the glory
of God?
See if she just believed and trusted, she would see a solution that she could not even
hope for.
See if she just believed, things would turn out even better than she could imagine.
And that's exactly what happened.
Jesus resurrected Lazarus, called him out and he came not only restored to life, but
his skin restored from decay.
Do you believe this?
Now there's many accounts in the Bible where the outcome turned out very different than
the servants of Jehovah could have possibly imagined.
For example, can you imagine that as they were throwing Jonah off the boat?
Could he, can you, can you picture him imagining how things would work out?
Oh, I bet a fish will come and swallow me and then I'll live and I'll go, no, he thought
he was a dead man.
He could, not in a million years, could he have imagined that outcome?
Or what about Gideon and his 300 men?
As they're lining up around the Midianites and what appears to be by all accounts of suicide
mission, do you think they could have imagined how things would have turned out?
Well, what about Peter?
He's in prison chained between two soldiers surrounded by other soldiers likely to be executed
in the morning.
Can you think, do you think he could have imagined walking out of prison in the miraculous
way that he did?
No, he thought he was a dead man.
What's the point for us?
Well, look at the illustrations on the monitor.
As you look at these, what feelings do you have?
What are you 100% confident of and what is it that you only dare to hope for?
Now we are 100% confident that Jehovah is going to deliver his people.
We have no doubt of that.
We know Jehovah is going to be victorious.
But where may your faith start to waver?
Will we may wonder how?
How will this affect me personally?
How will it affect my family?
Will I make it through or will I be killed in all of this and have to wait for a resurrected?
What if I'm separated from my family?
What will happen?
What does the Bible say?
Well, look at 2 Peter, chapter 2 and verse 9.
And just a beautiful verse that reminds us to trust in Jehovah.
The second Peter, 2 and verse 9, the first part of this is, so then, Jehovah knows how
to deliver or how to rescue people of Godly devotion out of trial.
This is in the context.
And when it talked about how Jehovah delivered Noah, how Jehovah delivered a lot, Jehovah
says, listen, I know what to do.
I know how to rescue people out of Godly, out of tribulation, people of Godly devotion.
Do you believe this?
So what lesson do we learn of the account of Martha, Mary, and Lazarus' resurrection?
Well, the reminder for today is, trust in Jehovah.
Do not waver in your faith.
Even if things do not unfold, the way we think they should or the way we imagine.
Don't waste time trying to think through scenarios that may or may not play out.
As Jehovah told King Jehasaphat and Fafo Judah's record as 2 Chronicles 20 verse 17, may we
do the same thing?
May we stand still and see the salvation of Jehovah with full assurance that things will
turn out even better than we could imagine.